# In Three Steps
Although the OpenCUI platform can be helpful in different stages of chatbot development, including development, testing, and deployment, it is primarily designed to aid builders in the development phase. With services designed and implemented, conversational user interface for these services can be built in three steps on [OpenCUI platform](https://build.opencui.io). 

For businesses, chatbots are developed to expose services through conversational user interface, which can be divided into interaction and language layer. Given user input and conversation history, the language layer are responsible for converting between natural language text and semantics (structured representation of meaning), interaction logic or sometime known as dialog management, decide how bot should react in semantics. Notice that interaction logic is in part decided by business goal and strategy, it is very common that there is 

### 1. Describe Services at Schema Level
Service is simply a set of functions. To invoke a particular function for users, we need to collect input parameters for that function from users and capture the function returns somehow. To support arbitrary input and output parameters, OpenCUI support primitive data type in form of Entity and composite data type in form of Frame and Skill, with polymorphism support built in. These types serve two different purposes: on one hand, they are actual types needed to invoke functions at code level; on the other hand, they are schemas that encode the semantics of what user meant based on dialog understanding model. This connection between representation of meaning and code that actually runs, is basis for our schema grounded conversational user interface.

### 2. Interaction as Annotation
After specifying the type of information chatbot needs to invoke service, builder can describe how this info should be collected. Instead of letting builder imperatively define the flow, OpenCUI provides a set of interaction annotations that can be used declaratively to define chatbot's behavior. This includes request information from user by prompting, different strategy that decide when chatbots actually engage in conversation for given slot, and how to offer user candidates based on business model and so on. These annotations will give builder a framework to reason about conversational interaction towards service and designing conversational user interface become answering these predefined questions. 

### 3. Language Template and Exemplar
Conversational user interface are further partitioned into interaction logic and language perception, so naturally interaction annotation contains language related part. Once interaction annotation is decided, these language related parts become required. This makes supporting new languages very easy, after defining the interaction and selecting the language you want, all builder has to do is to fill language aspects of the interaction annotation and they are done. There are two kind of language related parts builder needs to fill: template for text generation and utterance exemplars for helping dialog understanding.

For the impatient, [you can get started now](https://build.opencui.io). For the curious, read on.